---
title: "2024 wrapped"
date: "2024-12-01"
tags: [personal]
toc: true
draft: true
---

2024 was very kind to me. It was probably the best year so far. I would not
change a thing about it. Travelled to interesting places, ran, hiked, met
goals, and did so much more. Unlike the previous years, I spent a lot of time
outdoors. Writing this post to remember some of it.

## Work

Joined [Cockroach Labs](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/) in October of last
year (2023). This was probably a pivotal decision that made this year so great. The
work culture here made me realise that I can do fulfilling work without
completely burning out.

I got do a lot of interesting work this year on the various observability tools
that are used for monitoring/debugging cockroachDB. I did a lot of work around
the [debug zip](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/cockroach-debug-zip)
command. This gave a chance to venture into the cockroachDB codebase and
understand how the logging, metrics and other subsystems work.

Apart from the main line of work, I took part in an internal leader board for
the 1 billion row challenge. That was a lot of fun and I got to learn A LOT
from this experience. I was able to get the runtime from 3mins to just over 2
seconds. But because the bar is so high at Cockroach Labs, I was only able to
get 8th place :P

There is still so much to learn and do at Cockroach Labs. I am looking forward
to the coming year.

## Health

Last year, I got a health checkup done and found out that I had high
cholesterol and glucose resistance. This really scared the shit out of me. So,
I decided to take health more seriously and started running.

The was very hard to begin with. I hated running in the beginning. But by the
beginning of this year, I got a hang of it and started to enjoy it. So far this
year, I've run almost 300Km. I also took part in my first 10k run.

[[ images /src/img/2024-wrapped/medal.jpg ]]

From the past few weeks, I've also started to do some strength training. Over
the course of this year, I was able to drop around 10Kg of weight. And more
importantly, I don't have high cholesterol and glucose resistance anymore ðŸŽ‰

## Travel

#### Kashmir

Went to Kashmir with family in March. The timing was perfect. It was the
beginning of spring and still got to see snow. This was my first time seeing
snow. The highlight of this trip for me was the stay in Gulmarg and the hike to
the Thajiwas Glacier in Sonmarg.

#### Canada

Got to go to Canada for the company's RnD offsite. The offsite was for 3 day in
Toronto. For the 3 days there was enough to see in Toronto apart from the
official programming of the offsite. We mostly walked around the city and
visited touristy places like the distillery district, steam whistle brewery,
etc. On one of the days, we went to see the Niagara falls. This was my first
time travelling outside of India. I really enjoyed the first world experience.
The company put us up in the [Four Seasons
Hotel](https://www.fourseasons.com/toronto/). The hotel was just amazing. The
food was great, the view from my room was great. I really enjoyed my stay
there.

After the offsite, a few of us took a couple of days off and went to Banff in
Alberta. This was the highlight of the trip. The place is just so beautiful. We
went some of the blue lakes, hiked a bit, and mostly just walked around the
town. The hostel we stayed in was 5min away from the bow river. The views were
spectacular from every corner of the town.

## Hiking

This year, I did not leave any opportunity to go hiking. I found this amazing
community of hikers in Bangalore called [BLR Hikes](https://blrhikes.com/).
Which is run by [Shreshth Mohan](https://x.com/shreshthmohan). I went on
several hikes with them around Bangalore. This made me realise how easy it is
go get away from civilization for a little bit and just be with nature.

Outside of Bangalore, I went on 2 treks in the Western Ghats. The first one was
to [Kudremukh](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kudremukh) and the second one was
to [Kumara Parvatha](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kumara_Parvatha). Kudremukh
was my favourite of the two. It was during the monsoon season and the place was
lush green and there were multiple streams of crystal clear water that you
could drink from. The trek was medium-hard difficulty. The views towards the
summit were amazing. Kumara Parvatha was much harder. Most of the group I went
with (including me) did not make it to the summit. We reach Shesha Parvatha
which is about 1km away from the summit and decided to turn back because it was
getting dark. This trek was very humbling ðŸ˜….

I also did a couple of hikes in Banff and Kashmir which were great. Hikes
around Bangalore are nice, but the hikes in Alpine regions are something else.
In this coming years, I want to do some of the more challenging hikes in the
Himalayas.

## Music

Having spent a lot of my free time outdoors this year, I could not spend much
time on the music front. But I did perform in two open mics at the [Indian
Music Experience](https://indianmusicexperience.org/). Apart from this, I
uploaded 3 covers on my [Youtube channel]():

- [Pneuma (by Tool) on a classical guitar](https://youtu.be/k5kGou2KEcM)
- [The Humbling River - Puscifer | Acoustic + MIDI cover](https://youtu.be/E2crH8OpNqU)
- [By And Down The River - A Perfect Circle | Guitar/MIDI Cover](https://youtu.be/PukkjgjrENA)

If you are a fan of progressive rock/metal, you will probably notice a pattern
in the above songs ðŸ˜›. Tool and Maynard James Keenan's world is one of the best
discoveries I made this year. I'd listen to Tool before but never really got
into it. But this year, I got obsessed with them. It's amazing how much depth
there is in their music both lyrically and musically. I've listened to
technically proficient music before, but Tool also manages to be very emotional
and spiritual. I've never felt so connected to music like this before.

---

Those were some of the highlights of 2024. I am looking forward to the coming
year with a few minor goals in mind. See you in 2025!
